README.md, before:

# T-Rex Runner Game

A fun and engaging T-Rex Runner game built with React and TypeScript, inspired by Chrome's offline dinosaur game!

## 🎮 Game Features

- **Smooth Gameplay**: Responsive controls with spacebar jumping
- **Progressive Difficulty**: Game speed increases as you score higher
- **Multiple Obstacles**: Avoid both cacti and flying birds
- **Visual Effects**: Beautiful pixel art styling and smooth animations
- **Score Tracking**: Real-time score display and speed indicator
- **Responsive Design**: Works on all screen sizes

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (version 16 or higher)
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd ai-trex-runner
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. Start the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

4. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000`

### Build for Production

```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
```

## 🎯 How to Play

- **Start**: Click the "Start Game" button or press any key
- **Jump**: Press the **SPACEBAR** or **CLICK** to make the dinosaur jump
- **Objective**: Avoid obstacles (cacti and birds) for as long as possible
- **Scoring**: Your score increases the longer you survive
- **Difficulty**: Game speed increases every 500 points

## 🏗️ Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/          # Game components
│   ├── Game.tsx        # Main game logic
│   ├── Dinosaur.tsx    # Player character
│   ├── Obstacle.tsx    # Game obstacles
│   └── Cloud.tsx       # Background clouds
├── hooks/              # Custom React hooks
│   ├── useGameLoop.ts  # Game loop management
│   └── useInputHandler.ts # Input handling
├── App.tsx             # Main application component
├── main.tsx            # Application entry point
└── index.css           # Global styles
```

## 🎨 Technologies Used

- **React 18** - Modern React with hooks
- **TypeScript** - Type-safe development
- **Vite** - Fast build tool and dev server
- **CSS3** - Custom styling and animations
- **HTML5 Canvas** - Game rendering

## 🎮 Game Mechanics

### Dinosaur Movement
- The dinosaur automatically runs forward
- Jump height and distance are optimized for smooth gameplay
- Running animation with leg and arm movement

### Obstacle Generation
- **Cacti**: Ground obstacles that appear randomly
- **Birds**: Flying obstacles at varying heights
- Obstacle frequency increases with game speed

### Collision Detection
- Precise hitbox detection for fair gameplay
- Game over when dinosaur hits any obstacle

### Progressive Difficulty
- Base speed: 5 units per frame
- Speed increases by 0.5 every 500 points
- Maximum speed capped at 15 units per frame

## 🔧 Customization

You can easily customize the game by modifying:

- **Game Speed**: Adjust the `gameSpeed` state in `Game.tsx`
- **Jump Height**: Modify the jump animation in the `jump` function
- **Obstacle Frequency**: Change timing values in `generateObstacle`
- **Visual Styling**: Update CSS files for different themes

## 🚀 Performance Features

- **Optimized Game Loop**: Uses `requestAnimationFrame` for smooth 60fps
- **Efficient Rendering**: Only updates necessary components
- **Memory Management**: Proper cleanup of intervals and event listeners
- **Responsive Design**: Adapts to different screen sizes

## 🎯 Future Enhancements

- [ ] Sound effects and background music
- [ ] Power-ups and special abilities
- [ ] Multiple dinosaur characters
- [ ] High score persistence
- [ ] Mobile touch controls
- [ ] Night mode theme
- [ ] Particle effects

## 🤝 Contributing

Feel free to contribute to this project by:

1. Forking the repository
2. Creating a feature branch
3. Making your changes
4. Submitting a pull request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🎮 Have Fun!

Enjoy playing the T-Rex Runner game! Try to beat your high score and challenge your friends. The game gets progressively harder, so stay focused and keep jumping!

---

**Happy Gaming! 🦖🏃‍♂️**

Commit message:

Rebrand to DINO DASH - Epic Dinosaur Adventure

README.md, after:

# DINO DASH 🦖💨

**An Epic Dinosaur Runner Adventure** built with React and TypeScript, inspired by Chrome's offline dinosaur game!

## 🎮 Game Features

- **Smooth Gameplay**: Responsive controls with spacebar jumping
- **Progressive Difficulty**: Game speed increases as you score higher
- **Multiple Obstacles**: Avoid both cacti and flying birds
- **Visual Effects**: Beautiful pixel art styling and smooth animations
- **Score Tracking**: Real-time score display and speed indicator
- **Responsive Design**: Works on all screen sizes

## 🚀 Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Node.js (version 16 or higher)
- npm or yarn

### Installation

1. Clone the repository:
```bash
git clone <your-repo-url>
cd ai-trex-runner
```

2. Install dependencies:
```bash
npm install
```

3. Start the development server:
```bash
npm run dev
```

4. Open your browser and navigate to `http://localhost:3000`

### Build for Production

```bash
npm run build
npm run preview
```

## 🎯 How to Play

- **Start**: Click the "Start Game" button or press any key
- **Jump**: Press the **SPACEBAR** or **CLICK** to make the dinosaur jump
- **Objective**: Avoid obstacles (cacti and birds) for as long as possible
- **Scoring**: Your score increases the longer you survive
- **Difficulty**: Game speed increases every 500 points

## 🏗️ Project Structure

```
src/
├── components/          # Game components
│   ├── Game.tsx        # Main game logic
│   ├── Dinosaur.tsx    # Player character
│   ├── Obstacle.tsx    # Game obstacles
│   └── Cloud.tsx       # Background clouds
├── hooks/              # Custom React hooks
│   ├── useGameLoop.ts  # Game loop management
│   └── useInputHandler.ts # Input handling
├── App.tsx             # Main application component
├── main.tsx            # Application entry point
└── index.css           # Global styles
```

## 🎨 Technologies Used

- **React 18** - Modern React with hooks
- **TypeScript** - Type-safe development
- **Vite** - Fast build tool and dev server
- **CSS3** - Custom styling and animations
- **HTML5 Canvas** - Game rendering

## 🎮 Game Mechanics

### Dinosaur Movement
- The dinosaur automatically runs forward
- Jump height and distance are optimized for smooth gameplay
- Running animation with leg and arm movement

### Obstacle Generation
- **Cacti**: Ground obstacles that appear randomly
- **Birds**: Flying obstacles at varying heights
- Obstacle frequency increases with game speed

### Collision Detection
- Precise hitbox detection for fair gameplay
- Game over when dinosaur hits any obstacle

### Progressive Difficulty
- Base speed: 5 units per frame
- Speed increases by 0.5 every 500 points
- Maximum speed capped at 15 units per frame

## 🔧 Customization

You can easily customize the game by modifying:

- **Game Speed**: Adjust the `gameSpeed` state in `Game.tsx`
- **Jump Height**: Modify the jump animation in the `jump` function
- **Obstacle Frequency**: Change timing values in `generateObstacle`
- **Visual Styling**: Update CSS files for different themes

## 🚀 Performance Features

- **Optimized Game Loop**: Uses `requestAnimationFrame` for smooth 60fps
- **Efficient Rendering**: Only updates necessary components
- **Memory Management**: Proper cleanup of intervals and event listeners
- **Responsive Design**: Adapts to different screen sizes

## 🎯 Future Enhancements

- [ ] Sound effects and background music
- [ ] Power-ups and special abilities
- [ ] Multiple dinosaur characters
- [ ] High score persistence
- [ ] Mobile touch controls
- [ ] Night mode theme
- [ ] Particle effects

## 🤝 Contributing

Feel free to contribute to this project by:

1. Forking the repository
2. Creating a feature branch
3. Making your changes
4. Submitting a pull request

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the LICENSE file for details.

## 🎮 Have Fun!

Enjoy playing DINO DASH! Try to beat your high score and challenge your friends. The game gets progressively harder, so stay focused and keep dashing through the prehistoric landscape!

---

**Happy Dashing! 🦖💨🏃‍♂️**
